Retry syntax (#8923)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/reference/commands/retry.md

id: "retry"
---

> Retry re-executes the last invocation from the point of failure. Use `dbt retry` with <Constant name="core" />, the <Constant name="fusion_engine" />, or the [<Constant name="dbt_platform" /> CLI](/docs/cloud/cloud-cli-installation).

Reviewer: hmm this is supported in dbt platform studio ide too -- do we think it's clear based on here? i'm reading it as if it's cli-supported only. or at a stretch, we're expecting users to infer that you can use the command in platform too. 

also we're mixing engines with a cli - i feel this might miss the mark and provide more confusion. maybe something like:

You can use the dbt retry command with the Core or Fusion engine across all development tools (Studio IDE, dbt platform CLI, local CLI).

Author: I think maybe the best course it to just leave out where it's supported since it's supported everywhere `build` is

- If no nodes are executed before the failure (for example, if a run failed early due to a warehouse connection or permission errors), retry won't run anything since there's no recorded nodes to retry from.
- In these cases, we recommend checking your [`run_results.json` file](/reference/artifacts/run-results-json) and manually re-running the full job so the nodes build. 
- Once some nodes have run, you can use retry to re-execute from any new point of failure.
- If the previously executed command completed successfully, retry will finish as `no operation`. 

## Retry flags

> :::note dbt platform CLI

Reviewer: this would also apply to studio ide right?

If you use the [<Constant name="dbt_platform" /> CLI](/docs/cloud/cloud-cli-installation) against your cloud environment, `dbt retry` accepts only a small subset of overrides—typically `--threads`, `--vars`, and related options. Use `dbt retry --help` on your machine for the exact list your CLI build supports.
:::

> <VersionBlock lastVersion="1.99">

Reviewer: great job adding versionblocks here!

When you run `dbt retry` with a local [<Constant name="core" /> installation](/docs/local/install-dbt), the following flags are supported:

| Flag | Input value | Description | Example |
|------|-------------|-------------|---------|

> | `--threads` | int | Override the number of threads used in the original run | `--threads 8` |

Reviewer: exmaples here are inconsistent with fusion table examples (flag vs full command)

| `--vars` | yaml | Override variables from the original run | `--vars '{"my_var": "new_value"}'` |
| `--target` | target | Override the target from the original run | `--target prod` |
| `--profile` | profile | Override the profile from the original run | `--profile jaffle_shop` |
| `--profiles-dir` | path | Path to the directory containing `profiles.yml` | `--profiles-dir ~/.dbt` |
| `--project-dir` | path | Path to the directory containing `dbt_project.yml` | `--project-dir .` |
| `--target-path` | path | Override the target directory path | `--target-path target` |
| `--state` | path | Path to a directory containing `run_results.json` from a previous run (defaults to the target directory) | `--state path/to/previous/run` |
| `--full-refresh` | — | Override incremental models to run as full refreshes | `--full-refresh` |

</VersionBlock>

<VersionBlock firstVersion="2.0">

When you run `dbt retry` with a local [<Constant name="fusion" /> installation](/docs/local/install-dbt), the following flags are supported:

| Flag | Input value | Description | Example |
|------|-------------|-------------|---------|

> | `-t`, `--target` | target | The target to execute | `dbtf retry -t prod` |

Reviewer: mixing dbt with dbtf here

| `--project-dir` | path | The directory to load the dbt project from | `dbtf retry --project-dir .` |
| `--profile` | profile | The profile to use | `dbtf retry --profile jaffle_shop` |
| `--profiles-dir` | path | The directory to load the profiles from | `dbtf retry --profiles-dir ~/.dbt` |
| `--packages-install-path` | path | The directory to install packages | `dbtf retry --packages-install-path dbt_packages` |
| `--target-path` | path | The output directory for all produced assets | `dbtf retry --target-path target` |
| `--vars` | vars | Variables for the project (serialized as in the CLI help) | `dbtf retry --vars '{"my_var": "new_value"}'` |

Run `dbt retry --help` for the full list your build exposes.

### Fusion node selection

Unlike `dbt retry` with <Constant name="core" />, <Constant name="fusion" /> lets you narrow what gets retried using [`--select`](/reference/node-selection/syntax), [`--exclude`](/reference/node-selection/syntax), and [`--selector`](/reference/node-selection/yaml-selectors). Those arguments override the prior invocation’s selection set for the retry run instead of only inheriting it.

#### Examples

```shell

> dbtf retry --select my_model+

Reviewer: we're using dbtf here but dbt earlier - we should be consistent and stick with dbt as the default command per slack thread (optionally add a mention of the alias IF using both engines).

id: "retry"
---

Retry re-executes the last invocation from the point of failure.

- If no nodes are executed before the failure (for example, if a run failed early due to a warehouse connection or permission errors), retry won't run anything since there are no recorded nodes to retry from.
- In these cases, we recommend checking your [`run_results.json` file](/reference/artifacts/run-results-json) and manually re-running the full job so the nodes build. 
- Once some nodes have run, you can use retry to re-execute from any new point of failure.
- If the previously executed command completed successfully, retry will finish as `no operation`. 

## Retry flags

The `dbt retry` flags apply when you use a local dbt installation or the <Constant name="studio_ide" />.

:::note dbt platform CLI
If you use the [<Constant name="dbt_platform" /> CLI](/docs/cloud/cloud-cli-installation) against your cloud environment, `dbt retry` accepts only a small subset of overrides—typically `--threads`, `--vars`, and related options. Use `dbt retry --help` on your machine for the exact list your CLI build supports.
:::

<VersionBlock lastVersion="1.99">

> When you run `dbt retry` with the <Constant name="core" /> engine, the following flags are supported:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following flags are supported when you run `dbt retry` with the <Constant name="core" /> engine:
```

| <code style={{ whiteSpace: 'nowrap' }}>--profiles-dir</code> | path | Path to the directory containing `profiles.yml` | <code style={{ whiteSpace: 'nowrap' }}>dbt retry --profiles-dir ~/.dbt</code> |
| <code style={{ whiteSpace: 'nowrap' }}>--project-dir</code> | path | Path to the directory containing `dbt_project.yml` | <code style={{ whiteSpace: 'nowrap' }}>dbt retry --project-dir .</code> |
| <code style={{ whiteSpace: 'nowrap' }}>--target-path</code> | path | Override the target directory path | <code style={{ whiteSpace: 'nowrap' }}>dbt retry --target-path target</code> |
| <code style={{ whiteSpace: 'nowrap' }}>--state</code> | path | Path to a directory containing `run_results.json` from a previous run (defaults to the target directory) | <code style={{ whiteSpace: 'nowrap' }}>dbt retry --state path/to/previous/run</code> |
| <code style={{ whiteSpace: 'nowrap' }}>--full-refresh</code> | — | Override incremental models to run as full refreshes | <code style={{ whiteSpace: 'nowrap' }}>dbt retry --full-refresh</code> |

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<br />
Run `dbt retry --help` for the full list of flags available.
```

</VersionBlock>

<VersionBlock firstVersion="2.0">

> When you run `dbt retry` with the <Constant name="fusion_engine" />, the following flags are supported:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following flags are supported when you run `dbt retry` with the <Constant name="fusion_engine" />:
```

| <code style={{ whiteSpace: 'nowrap' }}>--project-dir</code> | path | The directory to load the dbt project from | <code style={{ whiteSpace: 'nowrap' }}>dbt retry --project-dir .</code> |
| <code style={{ whiteSpace: 'nowrap' }}>--profile</code> | profile | The profile to use | <code style={{ whiteSpace: 'nowrap' }}>dbt retry --profile jaffle_shop</code> |
| <code style={{ whiteSpace: 'nowrap' }}>--profiles-dir</code> | path | The directory to load the profiles from | <code style={{ whiteSpace: 'nowrap' }}>dbt retry --profiles-dir ~/.dbt</code> |
| <code style={{ whiteSpace: 'nowrap' }}>--packages-install-path</code> | path | The directory to install packages | <code style={{ whiteSpace: 'nowrap' }}>dbt retry --packages-install-path dbt_packages</code> |
| <code style={{ whiteSpace: 'nowrap' }}>--target-path</code> | path | The output directory for all produced assets | <code style={{ whiteSpace: 'nowrap' }}>dbt retry --target-path target</code> |
| <code style={{ whiteSpace: 'nowrap' }}>--vars</code> | vars | Variables for the project (use the format shown in the CLI help) | <code style={{ whiteSpace: 'nowrap' }}>{`dbt retry --vars '{"my_var": "new_value"}'`}</code> |

> Run `dbt retry --help` for the full list that your build exposes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<br />
Run `dbt retry --help` for the full list of flags available.
```

id: "retry"
---

`dbt retry` re-executes the last `dbt` command from the node point of failure.
- If no nodes are executed before the failure (for example, if a run failed early due to a warehouse connection or permission errors), `dbt retry` won't run anything since there's no recorded nodes to retry from.
- In these cases, we recommend checking your [`run_results.json` file](/reference/artifacts/run-results-json) and manually re-running the full job so the nodes build. 
- Once some nodes have run, you can use `dbt retry` to re-execute from any new point of failure.
- If the previously executed command completed successfully, `dbt retry` will finish as `no operation`. 

## Retry flags

`dbt retry` accepts the following flags:

| Flag | Description |
|------|-------------|

> | `--threads <int>` | Override the number of threads used in the original run |

Reviewer: just a heads up angular brackets aren't usually friendly for users (especially less experienced users) as it's not always understand to be a placeholder. i had tickets where users would include angular brackets

> | `--vars` | yaml | Override variables from the original run | `--vars '{"my_var": "new_value"}'` |

Author: ```suggestion
| `--vars` | YAML | Override variables from the original run | `--vars '{"my_var": "new_value"}'` |
```
